



Network Working Group                                          PieterKas
Internet-Draft                                    Your Organization Here
Intended status: Informational                               J. Lombardo
Expires: 9 May 2026                                                  AWS
                                                         5 November 2025


            Agent-to-Agent Authentication and Authorization
      draft-agent2agent-kasselman_lombardo-agent2agent-auth-latest

Abstract

   This document proposes a framework for secure agent-to-agent (A2A)
   interactions leveraging existing standards such as OAuth 2.0 and the
   Workload Identity Management and Secure Exchange (WIMSE)
   architecture.  Rather than defining new protocols, this document
   explores how existing and widely deployed stnadards can be applied or
   extended to establish agent-to-agent authentication and
   authorization.  By doing so, it aims to provide a framewrok within
   which to identify protocol gaps, align terminology, and guide future
   standardization efforts for secure A2A communication.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://PieterKas.github.io/agent2agent-auth-framework/draft-
   agent2agent-kasselman_lombardo-agent2agent-auth.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-agent2agent-
   kasselman_lombardo-agent2agent-auth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/PieterKas/agent2agent-auth-framework.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 9 May 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  Agent as a workload
   4.  Agent Attestation
   5.  Agent Identifier
   6.  Agent Credentials
   7.  Agent Credential Provisioning
   8.  Agent Authentication
     8.1.  Network layer authentication
     8.2.  Application layer authentication
   9.  Agent Authorization
     9.1.  Same Domain Authorization
       9.1.1.  Agent-to-Tool Authorization
       9.1.2.  Agent-to-Agent Authorization
       9.1.3.  User Delegated Authroization
       9.1.4.  Downscoping Agent Authorization
       9.1.5.  Human-in-the loop
     9.2.  Cross Domain Agent-to-Agent Authroization
   10. Agent Monitoring and Remediation
   11. Agent Identity Policy
   12. Agent Compliance
   13. Security Considerations
   14. IANA Considerations
   15. Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   TODO Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  Agent as a workload

   Key point - for purposes of this document, Agent is a workload that
   calls an LLM (or similar) and tools in a loop until a terminating
   condition is met as determined by the LLM or agent.  Create a
   diagram.

4.  Agent Attestation

   Key point - agent attestation is the equivalent of identiy proofing.
   there are numerous mechanisms through which this may be achieved,
   which are deployment and risk specific.  Reference WIMSE and SPIFFE
   approaches here.

5.  Agent Identifier

   Key point - agents must be uniquely identified.  Proposal is to use a
   WIMSE or WIMSE compatible identifier (basicaly a URI).  Refer to
   WIMSE identifier draft.

6.  Agent Credentials

   Key point - identifier must be bound to a credential.  Credentials
   have expiry dates and additional attributes relevant to the agent.
   multiple formats are possible.  JWTs, X.509 and WITs.  Reference
   SPIFFE, WIMSE.  Refer to API keys as an anit pattern.

7.  Agent Credential Provisioning

   Key point - credentials are dynamically provisioned at runtime, they
   are short lived to remove need for expiry management.  Provisioning
   includes initial provisioning and rotation.  Refer to SPIFFE and
   WIMSE.

8.  Agent Authentication

   Key point - agents may authenticate in a number of ways based on
   credentials, supported protocols and environment.  Distinguish
   between network and application layer.  Refernece WIMSE.

8.1.  Network layer authentication

   MTLS

8.2.  Application layer authentication

   WPT, HTTP Sig.

9.  Agent Authorization

   Key point - OAuth is broadly supported and provides a delegation
   model for users to clients (aka agents).  Agents can obtain acess
   tokens directly (client credentials flow, using above authentication
   methods) or it can be delegated to them by a user (OAuth flows).
   Make point that the access token includes the client_id, which is the
   same as the Agent ID (ore related to it) and can be used for
   authroization decisions, along with other claims in an Access Token
   (reference JWT Access token spec).  Make provision for opaque tokens
   as well.  Discuss Downscoping of agent authorization using
   transaction tokens.  Discuss cross-domain authorization (use cases)
   and how it may be achieved (identity chaining and cross-domain
   authorization).  Discuss human in the loop authroization.  Note
   concerns, refer to cross-device BCP as examples of consent phishing
   attacsk.  Talk about CIBA as a protocol.

9.1.  Same Domain Authorization

9.1.1.  Agent-to-Tool Authorization

9.1.2.  Agent-to-Agent Authorization

9.1.3.  User Delegated Authroization

9.1.4.  Downscoping Agent Authorization

9.1.5.  Human-in-the loop

9.2.  Cross Domain Agent-to-Agent Authroization

10.  Agent Monitoring and Remediation

   Key point - ongoing monitoring and remediation is needed.  Use
   protocols like SSE, CAEP to respond to changes in authorization.
   Note the need for ongoing logging and audit trails.  Talk about end-
   to-end audit and how this is enabled by having agent identifiers.

11.  Agent Identity Policy

   Key point - configuration and parameters for all the above
   constitutes policy.  Not stnadardises and not recommended for
   standrdisation?  Perhaps somethign about document format?

12.  Agent Compliance

   Key point - audit against Agent Identity Policy - not standrdised and
   not recommended to standardise.

13.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

14.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

15.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   PieterKas
   Your Organization Here
   Email: pieter@defakto.security


   Jean-François Lombardo
   AWS
   Canada
   Email: jeffsec@amazon.com
